# Design YouTube Netflix Prime Video

Step 1 :  features and desgin considerations
 
1. Video Upload
2. Search and Browse Videos
3. Video Streaming
4. Filter explicit content

Design a scalable, resilent, secure and cost effective system

Step 2: Choose the right storage

Storage options Avaliable 
1. Hard Disk Drive (HDD)
2. Solid State Drive (SSD)
3. Object Storage

for this use case we will use Object Storage
since it is easily scalable, cost effective and can store large files
and we only pay for the storage we use
and S3 is secure, durable and highly available
hence we use S3 for storing videos

Step 3: Choose the right database

Database options Avaliable
1. SQL
2. NoSQL

for this use case we will use NoSQL
since we need to store large amount of data and we need to scale horizontally
and we need to store unstructured data
and we need to store metadata of videos

hence we can use DynamoDB, ElasticSearch or MongoDB
since we have to search and browse videos we can use ElasticSearch
because it is a distributed, RESTful search and analytics engine capable of solving a growing number of use cases
Elasticsearch is a noSQL database and is document oriented
and it is also capable of full-text search and analytics capabilities

hence we use ElasticSearch for storing metadata of videos
DynamoDB and MongoDB can also be used for storing metadata of videos

Step 4: Video Converstion to different resolutions
we have to options
1. convert when user requested for that resolution of that video
2. convert all resolutions of video and store in S3 when video is uploaded

but the first option is not scalable and cost effective 
it won't give plesent user experience

hence we choose the second option

to do this we can use aws Elemental MediaConvert
it is a file-based video processing service that allows video providers to transcode video-on-demand content for multiscreen delivery
or 
we can use video processing tools and libraries like ffmpeg and run them on EC2 instances or Lambda functions or kubernetes pods

Step 5: explicit content filtering
we can use AWS Rekognition for detecting explicit content in videos
it is a deep learning-based image and video analysis service that can identify objects, people, text, scenes, and activities, as well as detect any inappropriate content
or 
we can use our own deep learning models and run them on EC2 instances or Lambda functions or kubernetes pods
to detect explicit content in videos


