# Queues Vs PubSub

Queue: 
    A queue is a pull based system.
    The consumer will pull the message from the queue.
    and the message will be deleted from the queue.
    only one consumer can pull the message from the queue.
    the message will be processed by the consumer.
    the message will not be available for other consumers.
    the message will be deleted from the queue after processing.
    the message will be processed in a sequence.

    example :

    User -> API Gateway -> SQS ( Simple Queue Service ) -> Lambda -> DynamoDB

    all api requests will be stored in the queue.
    and the lambda will process the request from the queue. and will store the data in the dynamodb.
    once the request is processed the message will be deleted from the queue.

    in amazon we have SQS ( Simple Queue Service ) to store the messages in the queue.
    this maintain FIFO ( First In First Out ) order to process the messages.

PubSub:
    A publish subscribe system. 
    it is a push based system.
    the producer will push the message to the topic.
    and the message will be available for all the consumers.
    who are subscribed to the topic.
    the message will not be deleted from the topic.
    the message will be available for all the consumers.
    the message will be processed by all the consumers.
    the message will be processed in parallel.

    example :

    User -> API Gateway -> SNS ( Simple Notification Service ) -> [ Lambda1, Lambda2, Lambda3 ] -> DynamoDB

    all api requests will be pushed to the topic.
    and the lambda1, lambda2, lambda3 will process the request from the topic. and will store the data in the dynamodb.
    the message will be available for all the lambdas.
    the message will not be deleted from the topic.

    in amazon we have SNS ( Simple Notification Service ) to push the messages to the topic.
    this maintain PUBSUB ( Publish Subscribe ) order to process the messages.

Difference:

1. Queue is a pull based system, PubSub is a push based system.
2. Queue maintains FIFO order, PubSub maintains PUBSUB order.
3. Queue is a single consumer, PubSub is multiple consumers.
4. Queue is a sequence processing, PubSub is a parallel processing.
5. Queue is a delete message, PubSub is a keep message.
6. Queue is a message will be processed by only one consumer, PubSub is a message will be processed by all the consumers.
7. Queue is a message will not be available for other consumers, PubSub is a message will be available for all the consumers.
